# `typescript-library-starter`

This starter enables simple creation of libraries using TypeScript.

It can be used for libraries either **_with or without_** React/JSX.

It includes automatic API documentation generation and (optionally) a website to
show it; Storybook and Jest integration for development.

> Inspired by the best bits of `alexjoverm/typescript-library-starter` and
> `tanem/generator-typescript-react-lib`.

## Features

from `tanem/generator-typescript-react-lib`:

- [x] Generates CommonJS, ES module, and Universal Module Definition bundles via
      Rollup.
- [x] Tests bundles via Jest.
- [x] Generates Typescript type declarations for publishing.
- [x] Outputs, strips, or wraps PropTypes declarations according to bundle type.
- [x] Makes Universal Module Definition bundles available via unpkg.

from `alexjoverm/typescript-library-starter`

- [x] Code of conduct
- [x] Contributing boilerplate

from me

- [x] interactive setup script which asks the basics to help get you up and
      running
- [x] version controlled engines like node and yarn with asdf
- [x] docusaurus website integrated with typedoc generated api docs
- [x] autogenerated coverage svg shield
- [x] Storybook integration
- [x] Semantic releases

future

- [ ] configure renovate for improved automation
- [ ] add automatic tests for the starter

### Alternatives

Kent C. Dodds' setup (or a fork of) is a good option:
https://github.com/kentcdodds/kcd-scripts

### Requirements

- Mac/Linux
- `node`, `yarn` _([versions](.tool-versions))_

## Setup

### Step 1. Local setup

```sh
# Clone this directory locally, and cd into it
git clone https://github.com/tbjgolden/typescript-library-starter.git <yourdir>
cd <yourdir>

# Clear the git history from the starter
rm -rf .git

# Start the custom setup script, and install dependencies
yarn

# An example is in examples/basic-usage, let's also install its dependencies
cd examples/basic-usage
yarn

# Check everything is set up correctly
cd ../..
yarn test

# Finally, let's initialize a new git repository
git init
git add -A
git commit -m 'Initial commit' --no-verify
git remote add origin https://github.com/<user>/<repo>.git
git push -u origin master
```

### Step 2. Github setup

1. Create an NPM token:
   https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-and-viewing-authentication-tokens
2. Create a Github repo of the **same name** that you selected in the setup
   script
3. Add the NPM token to your repository's secrets: your-repo > Settings >
   Secrets > New Secret `NPM_TOKEN=<your token from Step 1>`

> This will enable automatic releases that follow semantic versioning rules, by
> reading your commit messages. The commit messages will need to be in the
> [conventional changelog](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog)
> format. A commit message hook will help you make sure that your commit
> messages are correctly formatted (in the
> [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org) format). If you're
> not familiar with it, it's worth reading the (very short) spec and FAQs.

### Step 3. Go!

#### `yarn start`

This will:

1. run Storybook (if there are `src/**/*.stories.{ts,tsx}` files).
2. run Jest in watch mode (if there are `src/**/*.spec.{ts,tsx}` files)

> Note: It will do nothing if no matching `.stories.` or `.spec.` files are
> found.

#### `yarn start` on the included example

`examples/basic-usage` is an basic project bootstrapped with Create React App,
which you can use to demo an example of how to use the library you're making. To
run it, run `yarn start` inside `examples/basic-usage`.

## I'm not creating a React library

```sh
yarn remove react react-dom
```

### Also, my library is for node, not the browser

Remove the `browser` key in package.json.

## How to get along with this starter

There's a few things I've learnt about Rollup, Webpack, Babel and TypeScript
configurations from setting it up a couple of times. Some of those things have
found their way into this project as light opinions for how a project should be
set up.

- The core idea of this project is setting stuff up such that it is easier to
  remove stuff than add it; start with batteries include it, expose the
  internals (looking at you react-scripts 😜) and give some helpful scripts to
  make removing them a little easier.
- Rollup vs Webpack. I've tried generating libraries with Webpack before but
  they had two main problems; it produces much bigger bundles and it doesn't
  generate ES modules. The rollup ecosystem is smaller, and the docs can be
  overwhelming, but everything is there
- Keep the main src/index file free of JSX, and instead use it to be a root file
  for other source files. Avoid changing the extension of this file to `tsx`.
  Instead, add `export * from './some/path/to/file'` (where
  src/some/path/to/file.tsx can contain JSX) to src/index.ts
- If you want to bundle a package you're importing, stick it in dependencies. If
  you'd like the user of your library to install it as a peer dependency,
  install it as a peer dependency
  - Peer dependencies in web (umd) builds are imported by getting it from the
    window object. Web versions of different dependencies often use different
    global names (`window.$` might be used in `import ... from "jquery"`). For
    web builds to work, you'll have to add the correct global name to the
    knownDependencyNames map in rollup.config.js
- Avoid the PropTypes library; use TypeScript types instead; if you're new to
  React in TypeScript, check out the
  [React TypeScript cheatsheet](https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet)
- TypeScript configs are a hassle to configure for libraries. There's a
  tsconfig.eslint.json file at the base of this project, which extends the build
  tsconfig with settings to enable better linting
- The rollup config currently uses the old package for some rollup plugins. I
  tried to upgrade this but it opened a pandora's box of challenges that I've so
  far been unable to solve (would welcome help!)

## Project Website

This starter also includes a website built using
[Docusaurus 2](https://v2.docusaurus.io/); the same used on popular projects
such as `create-react-app` and `prettier`.

It is published to `http://<github user>.github.io/<repo name>` using an
automated Github Action. (There's no setup!)

Many open source projects will not need a website. A script is included to
remove the website; if run, TypeDoc is used instead to generate markdown
documentation on Github in /docs/api. (You can then use /docs/\* for any other
documentation you may like to add)

```
node scripts/removeWebsite.js
```

Add the newly staged files, commit and push.

In the repository settings, disable Github Pages.

You should now have autogenerated API docs generated on pushes to master, and
the repo's website will no longer be shown.
